# SRFI 69 - Basic hash tables

The `(srfi 69)` library defines basic hash tables.

Hash tables are widely recognised as a fundamental data structure for a wide variety of applications. A hash table is a data structure that:

- provides a mapping from some set of keys to some set of values associated to those keys
- has no intrinsic order for the (key, value) associations it contains
- supports in-place modification as the primary means of setting the contents of a hash table
- provides key lookup and destructive update in amortised constant time, provided that a good hash function is used

See the [SRFI document](http://srfi.schemers.org/srfi-69/srfi-69.html) for more information.

## Type constructors and predicate
[`make-hash-table`](#make-hash-table)
[`hash-table?`](#hash-table)
[`alist->hash-table`](#alist-hash-table)

## Reflective queries
[`hash-table-equivalence-function`](#hash-table-equivalence-function)
[`hash-table-hash-function`](#hash-table-hash-function)

## Dealing with single elements
[`hash-table-ref`](#hash-table-ref)
[`hash-table-ref/default`](#hash-table-refdefault)
[`hash-table-set!`](#hash-table-set)
[`hash-table-delete!`](#hash-table-delete)
[`hash-table-exists?`](#hash-table-exists)
[`hash-table-update!`](#hash-table-update)
[`hash-table-update!/default`](#hash-table-updatedefault)

## Dealing with the whole contents
[`hash-table-size`](#hash-table-size)
[`hash-table-keys`](#hash-table-keys)
[`hash-table-values`](#hash-table-values)
[`hash-table-walk`](#hash-table-walk)
[`hash-table-fold`](#hash-table-fold)
[`hash-table->alist`](#hash-table-alist)
[`hash-table-copy`](#hash-table-copy)
[`hash-table-merge!`](#hash-table-merge)

## Hashing
[`hash`](#hash)
[`string-hash`](#string-hash)
[`string-ci-hash`](#string-ci-hash)
[`hash-by-identity`](#hash-by-identity)

# make-hash-table

    (make-hash-table)

    (make-hash-table equal?)

    (make-hash-table equal? hash)

    (make-hash-table equal? hash size)

Create a new hash table.

# hash-table?

    (hash-table? obj)

Determine if the given object is a hash table.

# alist->hash-table

    (alist->hash-table alist)

    (alist->hash-table alist equal?)

    (alist->hash-table alist equal? hash)

Convert given association list to a hash table.

# hash-table-equivalence-function

    (hash-table-equivalence-function hash-table)

Returns the equivalence predicate used for keys of hash-table.

# hash-table-hash-function

    (hash-table-hash-function hash-table)

Returns the hash function used for keys of hash-table.

# hash-table-ref

    (hash-table-ref hash-table key)

    (hash-table-ref hash-table key thunk)

This procedure returns the value associated to key in hash-table. If no value is associated to key and thunk is given, it is called with no arguments and its value is returned.

# hash-table-ref/default

    (hash-table-ref/default hash-table key default)

Return the value associated to `key` in the hash table, or `default` if the key is not found.

# hash-table-set!

    (hash-table-set! hash-table key value)

Sets the `value` associated to `key` in the given hash table.

# hash-table-delete!

    (hash-table-delete! hash-table key)

Removes any value association for `key` in the given hash table.

# hash-table-exists?

    (hash-table-exists? hash-table key)

Determines if the given key exists in the hash table.

# hash-table-update!

    (hash-table-update! hash-table key function)

    (hash-table-update! hash-table key function thunk)

# hash-table-update!/default

    (hash-table-update!/default hash-table key function default)

# hash-table-size

    (hash-table-size hash-table)

Return the number of associations in the hash table.

# hash-table-keys

    (hash-table-keys hash-table)

Return a list of keys in the hash table.

# hash-table-values

    (hash-table-values hash-table)

Return a list of values in the hash table.

# hash-table-walk

    (hash-table-walk hash-table proc)

proc should be a function taking two arguments, a key and a value. This procedure calls proc for each association in hash-table, giving the key of the association as key and the value of the association as value. The results of proc are discarded. 

# hash-table-fold

    (hash-table-fold hash-table f init-value)

This procedure calls f for every association in hash-table with three arguments: the key of the association key, the value of the association value, and an accumulated value, val. val is init-value for the first invocation of f, and for subsequent invocations of f, the return value of the previous invocation of f. The value final-value returned by hash-table-fold is the return value of the last invocation of f.

# hash-table->alist

    (hash-table->alist hash-table)

Return an association list using the keys and values from the hash table.

# hash-table-copy

    (hash-table-copy hash-table)

Return a new hash table with the same data as the original.

# hash-table-merge!

    (hash-table-merge! hash-table1 hash-table2)

Adds all mappings in hash-table2 into hash-table1 and returns the resulting hash table. 

# hash

    (hash object)

    (hash object bound)

Return a hash value for object in the range `0` to `bound`.

# string-hash

    (string-hash string)

    (string-hash string bound)

Same as `hash` except the argument must be a string.

# string-ci-hash

    (string-ci-hash string)

    (string-ci-hash string bound)

Case insensitive version of `string-hash`.

# hash-by-identity

    (hash-by-identity object)

    (hash-by-identity object bound)

The same as `hash`, except that this function is only guaranteed to be acceptable for `eq?`.

